Francisco Moreira Machado:
This week was the start of merging all parts of the project. I had a few hours of fixing broken QT installations of the UI team that did not contain one of the sub-libraries we needed. I helped the UI team finish their part. I progressed on the testing of the Vectorizer subpart of the algorithm with images taken from an Open Database of Images (Yalefaces) and now will move to assemble all parts of the Model to test. Analyzed and suggested modifications on a pull request to finish the logic behind the UI and move to merging it with the actual graphical components. I worked on the fine tuning of the architecture of the code to prepare everything to be merged in the smoothest way possible. I had started doing research on a new implementation of the Vectorizer, but decided to focus on improving the code we already had. Helped the building of the tests for KNN algorithm for Classification. 

Sebastian Simon:
This week was a lot of work. I started off by solving a git-related problem after someone named a file “\” which caused troubles on Windows. I finished the implementation of the decision tree algorithm, îi fixed multiple bugs in the Node Class and I wrote the whole Decision Tree class. However one weakness of our algorithm is that it always finds the closest person to the face that we get as input, but in case the person is not among the people to be identified it doesn’t tell us so. I implemented the is_alienated and is_alienated_id methods which look for a statistical test to see whether the query is close enough to any of the groups of people that we have. Moreover,  I talked with Bogdan Budura about the architecture and implementation of the classes I built so far so he could build the testing functions. For next week I will focus all my energy on testing the decision tree algorithm with Budura and finding a good alienation constant once the model class of the project is finalized by the rest of the algorithm team. On the other hand, I need to continue the work with Santorin Yu who is trying to merge the liveness class with the rest of the algorithm as the algorithm is written to work as a main on its own and its input does not correspond with the main structure of the code. If I finish testing decision tree and alienation I will help my colleagues with the merging and the issues they encountered with the UI.


Jasmine Watissee:
This week, I worked on merging database and password with Mija. We put together the functions, solved the problems, tested the functions and did the pull request to merge on main on Friday. This weekend, we made some little changes following the comments of Moreira and now we are ready to merge. Next week, I will work with Paula to merge with the User Interface.

Budura Bogdan:
This week I worked with Sebastian Simon on the classifier algorithms. I implemented testing infrastructures for the KNN, Decision Tree, and the Node class. For this classes I implemented displaying and generating methods and decided to go with a static implementation of the methods. I have chosen this approach to avoid unnecessary encapsulation as well as to maximize practicality and functionality. 
Moreover, for KNN I implemented the sorting algorithm and infrastructure to sort the labels as well as the num_reps vectors. Furthermore I helped with the merging of branches and with compiling. This week my focus will be on testing the classifier derived classes, making sure to solve any bugs and reaching a final conclusion. Moreover I will be helping Moreira with merging the branches and making sure everything compiles and works as intended.


Yassine Turki: 
This week, I worked on the rotate_face function which takes as input an image, checks if the eyes are not parallel with the bottom of the image and rotates the image accordingly. I haven’t been able to test it because I need to merge the code with the Localizer function. However, we decided to create a new class “Cascade” that would have all the functions previously written in detect file in order to make the compilation and merging efficient.

Santorin Yu:
This week I talked to Morreira and Budura about merging the Liveness class with the rest of the project. I modified the class so that it does not run as a main of its own(I tested it separately), but rather integrated in the OOP fashion. However, I had struggled to fully integrate it within the system so this will be my full focus next week.

Mija Pilkaite: 
This week we finalized the database with adding the password class to the database and incorporated the encryption to make it work in the csv files. I finished the testing and left everything working perfectly on a Thursday morning, unfortunately the thing does not work anymore and I don't know how to fix it so idk if it will ever work. However, the frontend is almost done and next week if we manage to fix the created issue, we will merge the database with Paula and frontend and will have a collaboration between the frontend and the database as all the functions are ready for the merge and match the information retrieved from the frontend. 

Romain Poggi:
This week, I have done a lost of testing on the cropping, rescale and detect part of the project. I added the option to put padding on the side of the image to make sure the size is good for the algorithm. I implemented a function that checks whether or not a face is condor; as in open eyes, face detected and is not too close to the border. I have also spent time with Sophie to set up her branch and helped her with Poco installation, as well as setting up an external library for Poco. Furthermore, I added easier ways so that both me and Yassine can run the same main in the same branch we work on together. Finally, I have done research on how to fix this recurrent issue among the group regarding the QtMultimedia file that is missing from the installs, crashing the program every time, as well as research on how to fix the read-only mode when using not full path. Finally, me and Yassine have spent a lot of time together debugging some issues we had.

Paula Gonzalez Alvarez:
This week I created the states for creating an account, login, successful login, and login through the authentication system. However, I had a lot of issues with my computer. The Cmake files were giving me errors because it was referencing the wrong source code. This took a long time to fix because we could not find where in the code it was referencing the files. Eventually, with the help of Bogdan and Moreira we got it to work. Then I tried merging Mija’s part of the code of databases and the QTCore file started giving me errors and some files from the QT library disappeared. After once again trying to fix it with Moreira, I ended up just having to delete and reinstall QT. I lost some of the actualizations from the UI, but I re-did them and I also managed to create the link between many of the buttons, allowing the user to navigate our desktop application.

Cezara Petrui:
This week, I tested the LDA algorithm for small inputs and in the beginning of the next week I plan to also test it against a larger database. Moreover, I implemented the Histogram of oriented gradients algorithm. This new localiser will be very useful since it helps us identify pictures that are not straightened, and hence straighten them accordingly. Together with Alexandru Serban, we did some research about algorithms that can be useful for recognising multiple faces in one picture and choosing the most relevant one. We decided to pick the face with the largest area, but we are still debating whether this approach is the best or not. We have not tested it yet. We wrote a basic implementation of the multiple face recognition algorithm, but we have some issues now with finding the faces module in opencv in order to make this algorithm work properly. This week, I will also collaborate with the other members from the algorithm team in order to merge and see if everything works fine together.


Alexandru Serban:
This week, I worked on testing the LDA algorithm on small inputs. The testing yielded good results. I still have to test it on larger inputs, which will be done this week. Moreover, I started doing research about localisers together with Cezara Petrui. Since Haarcascades, our current localiser,  had problems when the input face was not straight, we were trying to find something that would fix that problem, so we found the Histogram of Oriented Gradients. Since the algorithm uses gradients, it can easily recognise tilted faces, without affecting the efficiency of our model. We also implemented the HOG algorithm but we didn’t test it yet. We will test it this week and after comparing the results with the ones yielded by Haarcascades, we will decide which algorithm is better to use. Another issue that we tried to address was the multifaces problem: from a picture with multiple faces which face should we choose. The first approach was to choose the face with the largest area. In order to have the implementation done, we would have needed the module “faces” from OpenCV to work but so far it is not. For this week, we will test the algorithms and we will try to solve the problem with multi faces.  


Victor Lasocki:
This week, I worked on developing a UI in QT Design Studio. However, Paula managed to get a working interface in QT Creator. So, I switched to working on the design of the QT Creator interface. I spent the week learning how to use QT Style Sheets to improve the look of the UI, as well as implementing functions that enable interaction with the QSS (turn the button red for wrong login etc.).


Sophie-Claire Antoun: 
Got the sending mail for password recovery function to work!!! Had a lot of issues with the poco library, and linking it with OpenSSL. 
Finishing the random number generator and linking it with the password implementation to make the user reset his password.
